For long-term investments, there is
a lot more information about a company besides basic trading data.
Things like market share,
products and services, and growth potential
can be important factors for long-term trends.
Where could we get this information potentially?
In financial reports.
In the United States,
we have the Security and Exchange Commission,
the SEC, created to protect investors and facilitate disclosure of corporate information.
By law, large publicly traded companies are
required to file periodic financial reports with the SEC,
and these reports must be truthful and
accurate so they could be very useful for making investment decisions.
The most common reports are called 10-Ks which are
filed annually and 10-Qs which are filed quarterly.
To be concrete, we're going to focus on the 10-Ks.
10-Ks are long and detailed documents separated into four main parts.
Part one is the business overview and it contains
important information about risks and possible legal proceedings.
Part two, business and finance.
It includes discussion or market conditions,
projections, and highlights of the financial report.
Part three is governance.
It includes information on executive board members and compensations.
Finally, part four is
the full financial report which contains detailed information on spendings on earnings.
Allegedly, legendary investor Warren Buffett raised, on average,
500 pages of these reports every day,
and financial reports have probably helped him make investment decisions.
Maybe we don't have the time to read like Warren Buffett, but still,
with the aid of natural language processing,
we can easily extract information that could be useful for trading.
Luckily for us, in the US the SEC created
EDGAR which stands for the Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval.
It's essentially a website that gives you
straightforward access to all the available financial statements.
In the following lessons,
we will focus on particular sections of the 10-K reports.
This includes: Part one,
item one A that discusses business risk factors.
Part two, item seven and seven A that discuss market risks.
These sections I'll learn important risk factors like lawsuits, taxes,
and potential changes in market supply or
demand that could be useful for generating trading signals.